# School-Material-UI-Kit
Loosely following Material Design, a UI kit that is chalked full of higher end elements.

This kit is still in alpha testing. You may find display bugs, or elements that don't position correctly. I've included helper classes, but I'm one person. So, it helps a lot if you're familar with html or css. View the index.html file for an overview of what's in the kit. A lot of the parts (elements) are very modular and can be applied accross classes. Use the helpers to fix alignment, padding, margin, etc.

I wanted to release a kit that is free to use, that includes higher end components. There are very few kits that I've used, that come with the types of components I've put together in School Material, most require a "pro" upgrade to get similarly styled elements, or access to gradient headers, etc. In the kit, you will find a dazziling array of buttons, it's impressive, in a large variety of colors (all MD color). Not in the index.html are additional sizing that's available on the majority of buttons, most have a small, medium (normal state), and large size in addition to the buttons shown. But the blocks displaying the buttons were getting out of hand, so I excluded them from view. Additionally, block size buttons are available, just place a button in a container, for 75% screen width, or a container-fluid for 100% width, or make your own wrapper, there are some predifined wrappers for the content blocks, that could also wrap a button, and there are a variety of sizes available from that area that can also be used. 

The content blocks are meant to be an additional visual element that helps to arrange content for display in blocks. Very similar to a mason grid layout, except with added visual references... Place cards on them, buttons, tabs, whatever suits you, they will stack in columns accross rows, and you can leave them undefined (by internal content in other words), or you can assign values to them with helpers (h-70, etc), that will set block sizes, so that they can be stacked next to each other, or one huge one, 5 stacked on top of each other, next to the huge one, whatever your heart desires for a layout. Check the index.html file in the cards section, I've laid out many examples with the content blocks.

I've left the JS itemized, so you can choose which elements you want to load. One or two items have a dependency on GSAP. Load the latest Jquery, the scripts are easily modified to not use Jquery if you want to go without any dependencies. Most would just require changing the selector, and moving around a few event listeners.

I am still actively adding components to this library. It is not complete. It has a ton of cool stuff already, but still needs a few dressing items. The core is available. There is a grid system, a flex-box system, a float system, themed colors available for text and bg styling on the fly, shadow classes to add material shadows on the fly, various sizing helpers and containers. 

There are 13 immediately accessable button TYPES, coming in 13 different variations of color, each with an at rest state, hover state, and active state. There are 6+ wave colors available. There are about another 5-7 button types that you can use that are component specific, or you can swap it out, and use one of the main types, which ever you prefer.

Navbar comes in 13 colors, the text needs styling afterwards to be an appropriate color. Something I haven't gotten to yet. It supports collapsed, mobile first (shrinks to menu-burger), dropdown, links, icons, etc. Also a transparent and fixed varient are available.

Nav-Tabs are in two major categories, side-nav-tabs and standard-nav-tabs. For using pills, or heavily modifying, use the standard nav tabs, the side-tabs will be less forgiving. The side-tabs come ready for two major functions out of the gate, as a form nav-tabs, and as content (card tab). The default is a form side-nav-tab.

Accordian is shown in neutral styling, customize as you wish. It's shown in a mostly material spec, use the color helpers to change background and text for an easy way to make it yours.

The card options are vast, I've configured 8-10 card types out of the box, with modular inter-changeable pieces. The only thing not supported in displaying in a card is video. It wouldn't take much to get it in there, as most scale to what's inside. But the cards support image fading, image-overlay, perspective, fixed, stacked, split-a-card, side-img, top-img, bot-img, full-card-img, blog, price, inverse, 13 color headers, 13 fully colored cards, thumbnail-card, favorites-card, social-profile-card, reverse-cascading, cascading, change-on-hover (if desired, can translate direction and shadows). Have fun with the cards, this and the buttons are two areas normally you don't get access to the depth without a "pro" version. My gift to you!!! Mix with content blocks for some really cool looking card displays.

Old browsers will have very spotty support. I'm talking to you internet explorer... The components in school material use "normal" settings, as a result, some browsers will not render. It's under 5%, but just so you are aware. It's not dialed in for cutting edge, but it's not scaled back either. It's in the middle!

The next immediate phase of School Material, will be adding SVG components up the wazoo. Another batch of cards is incoming, along with toggle, checkbox, radio, multiple selection choices there. A couple SVG loaders, that are amazing, not an icon loader, but animated screens. I have them, just need to move it to the repo!! Mapping support for at least two or three api's. And a slew of animated "addons" that svg can help with, such as screen transitions, etc. Expect those in the near future. Until then, I hope you enjoy School Material thus far!
